osetup_gns
===============
Usage   
--------
.. parsed-literal::

    cg_spica setup_gns [-molid {molecule,residue,pdbkeep}] <:strong:`topfile 1`> <:strong:`nmol 1`> [<:strong:`topfile 2`> <:strong:`nmol 2`> ... <:strong:`topfile n`> <:strong:`nmol n`>] 
                       <:strong:`paramfile`> <:strong:`coordfile`>

Description
-----------
``setup_gns`` generates simulation input files for CG-MD with SPICA using GENESIS.
This program requires the following files as inputs:

- ``topfile``: SPICA topology file, distributed at `SPICA web <https://www.spica-ff.org/download.html>`_
- ``paramfile``: SPICA parameter file, distributed at `SPICA web <https://www.spica-ff.org/download.html>`_
- ``coordfile``: CG configuration file in PDB format

The ``topfile`` can be generated with ``json2top``, ``ENM`` commands (for proteins/nucleic acids).
For more information on these, see :doc:`json2top <json2top>`, :doc:`ENM <ENM>`.
The ``nmol`` is the number of ``topfile`` molecules included in your system.  
It is sensitive to the order of arguments, so the molecule topology and number 
should be given in the same order as given in the prepared configuration file in the PDB file. 

Running the program with the appropriate input files yields the following outputs:

- ``toppar/top_spica_charmm.rtf``: CHARMM-style RTF (residue topology file) for GENESIS
- ``toppar/par_spica_charmm.prm``: CHARMM-style parameter file for GENESIS
- ``gns_spica.psf``: PSF (protein structure file) containing system topology
- ``toppar/enm_bond_index.ndx``: ENM bond index file (only when ENM is used in any topology file)
- ``toppar/enm_bond_parm.prm``: ENM bond parameter file (only when ENM is used in any topology file)
- ``toppar/enm_angle_index.ndx``: ENM angle index file (only when ENM is used in any topology file)
- ``toppar/enm_angle_parm.prm``: ENM angle parameter file (only when ENM is used in any topology file)

The RTF and parameter files in the ``toppar/`` directory and the PSF file are required to run 
GENESIS CG-MD with SPICA FF. Use these files with the control file generated by ``gen_gnsin`` 
to start the simulation. For systems with ENM model in any topology file  ( "ENM" result), ENM files are 
automatically generated and should be included in the GENESIS control file.

Example
-------
**Lipid membrane system (no proteins):**

.. code-block:: bash

    cg_spica setup_gns DOPC.top 128 WAT.top 1408 spica_db.prm dopc.cg.pdb

:download:`DOPC.top <data/DOPC.top>`  
:download:`WAT.top <data/WAT.top>`  
:download:`spica_db.prm <data/spica_db.prm>`  
:download:`dopc.cg.pdb <data/dopc.cg.pdb>`  

Output files:

:download:`toppar/top_spica_charmm.rtf <data/top_spica_charmm.rtf>`  
:download:`toppar/par_spica_charmm.prm <data/par_spica_charmm.prm>`  
:download:`gns_spica.psf <data/gns_spica.psf>`  

**Protein wit ENM:**

.. code-block:: bash

    cg_spica setup_gns  protein.top 1 WAT.top 5000 spica_db.prm protein.cg.pdb

 This generates ENM files in addition to the standard output files:

- ``toppar/enm_bond_index.ndx``
- ``toppar/enm_bond_parm.prm``
- ``toppar/enm_angle_index.ndx``
- ``toppar/enm_angle_parm.prm``

**Multiple protein copies with ENM:**

.. code-block:: bash

    cg_spica setup_gns protein.top 3 WAT.top 5000 spica_db.prm system.pdb


**Residue numbering modes with -molid:**

.. code-block:: bash

    # Per-molecule numbering (default): each molecule gets one residue ID
    cg_spica setup_gns -molid molecule protein.top.v2 3 WAT.top 5000 spica_db.prm system.pdb

.. code-block:: bash

    # Per-residue numbering: resid increments when residue name changes
    cg_spica setup_gns -molid residue protein.top.v2 3 WAT.top 5000 spica_db.prm system.pdb

.. code-block:: bash

    # Keep PDB residue numbering: preserve resid from input PDB
    cg_spica setup_gns -molid pdbkeep protein.top.v2 3 WAT.top 5000 spica_db.prm system.pdb

The ``-molid molecule`` mode assigns one residue ID per molecule/monomer. 
The ``-molid residue`` mode increments residue ID when the residue name changes 
(e.g., CYT → GUA). The ``-molid pdbkeep`` mode preserves the exact residue 
numbering from your input PDB file, useful for maintaining consistency with 
visualization or analysis tools.



Positional args
---------------

``topfile`` <topology>
    topology file of a molecule
``nmol`` <int>
    number of molecules
``paramfile`` <parameter>
    SPICA force field parameter file
``coordfile`` <.pdb>
    CG configuration file


Important Notes
---------------

**File Order**
    The order of topology files and molecule numbers must match the order of molecules 
    in the PDB file.

**Multiple Molecules**
    When specifying multiple molecule types, provide them in pairs: 
    ``topfile1 nmol1 topfile2 nmol2 ... paramfile pdbfile``
    
**ENM File Detection**
    When topology files contain ENM model parameters, the program automatically 
    generates ENM parameter files (``enm_bond_index.ndx``, ``enm_bond_parm.prm``, 
    ``enm_angle_index.ndx``, ``enm_angle_parm.prm``) in the ``toppar/`` directory. 
    These files are automatically detected by ``gen_gnsin``.

**Residue Numbering**
    Residue IDs in PSF files are limited to 4 digits (1-9999). For systems with more than 
    9999 molecules of the same type, residue IDs wrap back to 1. Each molecule type resets 
    the counter, so DOPC molecules 1-128 get residue IDs 1-128, then WAT molecules start 
    from residue ID 1 again.
    
    The ``-molid`` option controls numbering behavior:
    
    - ``-molid molecule`` (default): Each molecule gets one residue ID. All atoms in 
      the same molecule/monomer share the same ID.
    - ``-molid residue``: Residue ID increments when the residue name changes in the 
      topology file (e.g., CYT → GUA). Useful for distinguishing different residues.
    - ``-molid pdbkeep``: Preserves the exact residue IDs from the input PDB file. 
      Useful for maintaining consistency with visualization tools or analysis workflows 
      that depend on specific residue numbering.


See Also
--------

* :doc:`gen_gnsin` - Generate GENESIS input files
* :doc:`setup_lmp` - Similar tool for LAMMPS
* :doc:`setup_gmx` - Similar tool for GROMACS
* :doc:`ENM` - Generate elastic network topology
* `GENESIS <https://mdgenesis.org>`__ - MD simulation software
